---
# Feel free to add content and custom Front Matter to this file.
# To modify the layout, see https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults
title: "Journaling made fun!"
layout: single
author_profile: false
---


I've always wanted to document my life and have been doing a very incosistent job of writing a journal once every 6 months. 

I was reading Sylvia Plath's unabridged journal and realised journals don't have to be a page long, they could just be a couple lines about the day. 

I wanted to make it easier to write my journals and store it in a place. To incentivise writing more journal entries, I had to make it easier first. I thought, if I could write my journal anywhere and it would magically get stored somewhere _relatively_ permanent, I'd write it more often. 

<!-- Writing is easiest on your phone because you can write anywhere. I wish there was a way such that I'd write it in my notes app and the journal entry would get saved with exact date and time  -->

Writing is easiest on your phone because you can write anywhere and I had just come across the wonders of Apple shortcuts (Super late, I know!) and realised I could do something with it to fetch the data from the notes app on my phone.

I wrote this shortcut with AppleScript (new language to add to my resume!) that fetches the text from the note. It looks for the note with a particular keyword, the title (e.g. 'Entry') in this case and finally, erases the content such that new entry can be added for when I feel like writing another journal entry.

Now that we have extracted the text, since the output is HTML, we need to process the text a bit more after which we can save it to a file.

Now that we have the file, we need to store it somewhere. I decided to store it in my private github repository. But I don't want to do it manually because then I'd never write a journal entry. 

Let's create a shell script which automatically pushes the file but how would we get it to run automatically? 

Here come cronjobs. <Insert cron job definition> 

We can set the script to run every end of the day. Actually we need two cronjobs, one to ask the data extraction shortcut, and one to run the shell script which pushes to github.

But wait, cronjobs won't work if the computer is asleep. What if my laptop is asleep during the scheduled time? My journal wouldn't be saved, what's even the point of writing one then :/

Well, we can just programmatically wake up the laptop by some power management commands. 

`sudo pmset repeat wake MTWRFSU HH:MM:SS`

This command tells your computer to wake up around the scheduled time throughout the week. Fun fact, code for Thursday is R and for Sunday is U.

If you got all this working, you have no reason to not journal everyday!

Anyway, thank you for reading! I have a midterm in a couple days and I spent an embarassing amount of time doing this.


<!-- My primary research interest is in the design of efficient strategies for large-scale data movement through the use of novel message passing algorithms to communicate data between distinct compute nodes within a distributed system.

My dissertation work primarily focused on designing efficient communication strategies within the context of scalable iterative solvers for emerging supercomputer architectures, however, these strategies are data type and application independent.

Recent technological advancements, such as cloud computing and trends within AI, necessitate the management and processing of data volumes at massive-scale. Data movement within these contexts can benefit from the same locality-aware strategies I designed within my dissertation work and plan to continue researching in the future. -->

